we will focus our discussion here in the collaboration aspects
that are more central and unique in the competition.

The General Video Game AI Competition [4] challenges the
Participants to develop agents that can play any game, without
any prior knowledge of it. The agents are tested with a game
that they do not know the rules of. It presents to participants
many different kinds of games, and more recently, included
collaborative games as well.

The Malmo Collaborative Al Challenge®, presents a mini-
game based on the “stag-hunt” paradigm, implemented with
Project Malmo [5], an experimentation and research platform
for AI, built on top of the Minecraft game. The challenge was
designed to encourage research related to various problems
in Collaborative Al. It invites participants to develop collab-
orative Al solutions to achieve high scores across a range of
partners. In the game presented players need to work together
to achieve a common goal, as is the case of Geometry Friends.

Furthermore, the Hanabi competition [6] introduces the
collaborative turn-based card game with two possible tracks.
In one of the tracks the agents follow the same strategy,
while in the other they are not aware who they are paired
with. The game focus on the “why” of the other player’s
intentions, so a model of the other should be created. It is also
about understanding how the other players will understand the
instructions given to them.

The FruitPunch Al-esports competition’ currently has a
multiplayer human-agent cooperative game where the chal-
lenges are smart navigation, decision making and risk man-
agement. In this game, named “Isaac’s Labyrinth”, there are
multiple teams of two players: one agent and one of their
developers. The objective of the game is to navigate through a
dynamic maze to catch some fruits. While the agent performs
the navigation, the human player can place or reveal traps.
This competition focus on approaches that use reinforcement
leaming.

These are just some examples of Game AI competitions.
Some of these share similar problems with the ones in Geom-
etry Friends, but none deal with them in the same way, nor
all at the same time. Card and board games usually focus on
developing or improving search algorithms, or other general-
ized strategies that may rely on pattems. In Geometry Friends,
this is also important for planning and control. Some of the
games presented in these competitions are tum-based, and
although they might have time limits to perform their actions
at each tum, there is no real-time issue being explored. “Isaac’s
Labyrint” has also the component of adversaries, and focus on
human-agent cooperation, which may be a future possibility
for the Geometry Friends competition since the game allows
human players to play with artificial agents. Hanabi’s focus
on the understanding of the partner's intentions using implicit
communication that can be explored on Geometry Friends as
well.
